1) PAPER and REVIEW DETAILS

- PAPER No.: 2
- TITLE: An RM-ODP Based Ontology and a CAD Tool...
- AUTHORS:Le/Wegmann

2) EVALUATION:

Please rate the following qualities from 0 to 5, with 5 being the highest.

- Technical accuracy: 2
- Scientific quality/originality: 2
- Appropriateness for the conference: 4
- Quality of presentation: 3
- Overall evaluation: 2/3
   (0 = outside the scope of the workshop,
    1 = Very poor,
    2 = Poor,
    3 = Acceptable,
    4 = Good,
    5 = Excellent )

- CONFIDENCE ON YOUR RATINGS (low, medium, high): high

4) JUSTIFICATION AND GENERAL COMMENTS:

   (A few lines are mandatory here to justify
    the numerical evaluation. You may also include
    general comments, relevant for both author(s)
    and the Programme Committee.)

The goal to model general systems using the same _system_ of concepts and 
constructs for all levels (and viewpoints) is proper for the analysis and design 
of any system, IT or not. Using RM-ODP for this purpose has been advocated in 
literature, and RM-ODP has been successfully used in many practical projects. 
The paper presents some interesting ideas, although it would be desirable to 
describe the ontology referred to in the title to a greater extent. At the same 
time, the authors' approach and some statements appear to be either overly 
restrictive (see below about hierarchy) or even somewhat misleading. As an 
example of the latter, the information viewpoint may be perfectly used to describe 
the decomposition of a composite object (system) and its emergent properties 
using the concept of invariant schema that defines the appropriate composition 
relationships. Thus, non-atomic objects do not require the computational 
viewpoint for their description (page 2); in fact, Part 2 definitions are 
sufficient for this purpose.


Furthermore, RM-ODP emphasizes the semantics of systems described using its 
concepts and constructs, while the presentation in the paper and especially 
that in the figures such as Figure 1 appear to concentrate on the syntax and on 
"meaningful names" that are clearly insufficient for an explicit specification. 
Relation semantics (see page 5, for example) is also not described by the 
authors and not even mentioned, although definitions of most important 
(non-binary!) relations, such as composition and subtyping, had been provided in Part 2 
of RM-ODP. As an example of a consequence, the semantics of the class diagram 
shown in Figure 6a is not specified. This only supports the well-known thesis 
in accordance with which the specification of UML semantics needs 
substantially more work and may well use the RM-ODP definitions for this purpose, see for 
example, the UML Profile for Relationships: 
http://www.omg.org/cgi-bin/doc?formal/2004-02-07.


While the concept of joint action is claimed to be new, in fact it is not; 
neither is it computational-object-specific. RM-ODP Part 2 specifically states 
that an action is associated with at least one object, and also defines a 
configuration of objects as the set of objects involved in each interaction. 
Moreover, Part 2 refers to "collective behavior" (11.2.1, definition of a contract), 
and collective behavior is well-known from the generalized object model. It 
is not clear from the paper what specifically had the authors proposed in 
addition to these considerations in order to elucidate the semantics of a joint 
action.


Furthermore, it is not clear how "information objects are modified by 
'information actions' that represents the computational object's responsibilities" 
(page 3) because the concept of responsibilities does not exist in the 
information viewpoint: this concept belongs to the classical rather than to the 
generalized object model.


While an enterprise architecture certainly deals with systems, these systems 
do not have to be hierarchical; in fact, most systems can be decomposed using 
several mutually independent hierarchies. 


RM-ODP is _not_ "Reference Model of Open Distributed System" (line 3 of the 
abstract). RM-ODP defines the five viewpoint for any systems, not only for IT 
ones (page 3). What does "states of the invariant objects" mean (page 4)?



5) FURTHER COMMENTS FOR AUTHORS:





6) CONFIDENTIAL COMMENTS FOR PC:

    (not to be sent to authors)

A rather weak paper requiring a lot of additional work, especially with 
respect to semantics.
