===========================================
1) PAPER and REVIEW DETAILS


- PAPER No.: 7
- TITLE:        On interactions in the RM-ODP
- AUTHORS:      Guy Genilloud and Gonzalo G=E9nova


- PC-MEMBER:    Peter Linington
- REFEREE (if different from PC member):


2) EVALUATION:


Please rate the following qualities from 0 to 5, with 5 being the highest.


- Technical accuracy: 2


- Scientific quality/originality: 3


- Appropriateness for the conference: 2


- Quality of presentation: 3


- Overall evaluation: 3
   (0 =3D outside the scope of the workshop,
    1 =3D Very poor,
    2 =3D Poor,
    3 =3D Acceptable,
    4 =3D Good,
    5 =3D Excellent )


- CONFIDENCE ON YOUR RATINGS (low, medium, high): 5


4) JUSTIFICATION AND GENERAL COMMENTS:


The paper includes some interesting discussion of the concept of
interaction and should be included on this basis. However, it is
misleading in its current form and should be modified. It
constructs an argument based on the wilful misreading of detailed
pieces of text, and then proposal of something closer to the
correct interpretation as if it was a new contribution. It is
useful to point out difficult wording, and the areas identified
should be clarified, but the matters are largely editorial and
should be treated on that level.


The two main pieces of wording causing trouble are:


a) the use of the word always in "an internal action always takes
place", where an objection is made that an action occurs only
once. This shows confusion about the scope of elements in a
specification language, and is like saying that the statement
"an exploding grenade always kills the person holding it" is
flawed on the grounds that any grenade only explodes once!
In a specification, an action occurs once per instantiation
of the scope containing it. If I define a piece of sub-behaviour,
referenced from many places in the specification, there is no
implication that only the first instantiation succeeds. This
applies even more strongly to specification reuse.


b) The text about an object contributing to its own
environment is in a note and is clearly not the defining
occurrence. In fact the phrase "in this context" is a
strong hint that the usage is metaphorical. The point
being made here is that when an object interacts with
itself, there is a degree of decoupling, so that the
constraints on the interaction arise from the object
playing two roles, and for each role the actions of the
other are as if from the environment. This implies that
static analysis of the behaviour of an object as a
configuration component may indicates liveness that is
not guaranteed if the two roles are closely coupled by
the internal behaviour of the object; the situation
goes from possible liveness to necessary deadlock.


More seriously, the discussion shows confusion about the
nature of observability; in a specification, saying something
is observable places an obligation on the interpreter of the
specification to preserve its observability in refinements and
does not imply that the information is secret, in the sense
of defying reverse engineering in an implementation. The
statement of observability is an assertion of the compositional
properties of the specification fragment, and not an inherent
property of the thing specified; this should be clear from
consideration if the hiding operators in typical specification
languages, which exist to modify the observability.


The discussion of knowledge of the environment at the end
of clause 2 would be clearer if the specification of a
complete system and the specification of an object in 
isolation as a reusable specification element were contrasted.


5) FURTHER COMMENTS FOR AUTHORS:


a) the discussion of observability in UML at the end of 2.1 seems
   to point to a failing in UML, not ODP, but it more easily
   explained from by the complete lack of a theory of conformance
   in UML; such a theory would have to introduce implicit
   interaction with observers to be viable.
b) End of 2.2 para 1 "role in achieving"
c) The discussion of actions is incomplete without a discussion of
   what "atomic" means in the author's system, particularly with
   regard to action refinement.
d) Clause 5.1 last word "respectively".
e) The discussion of interfaces in 6.1 departs from the ODP model.
   It seems to assume a model of a primitive binding between objects
   in which the original unbound interfaces have distinct visibility;
   in the ODP model a primitive binding results in the sharing of a
   single interface, although the participants may retain distinct
   views of, for example, its type.
f) The discussion of behaviour in 6.2 ignores the fact that the
   respective action roles form part of the constraints associated
   with the composition operators involved in constructing
   the behaviour.
g) The assertions that ODP is ignored are a piece of vicarious
   rudeness and should be removed.


6) CONFIDENTIAL COMMENTS FOR PC:
    (not to be sent to authors)


I think the minimum actions required are:
a) revise the analysis to provide a more balanced analysis
b) Take into account the points identified above that are
   not currently covered
c) revise the presentation to make it less polemical and
   more generally balanced.

