1) PAPER and REVIEW DETAILS


- PAPER No.:
11
- TITLE: Model Integration Through Mega Operations
- AUTHORS: Th.Reiter, E.Kapsammer, W.Retschitzegger, W.Schwinger


2) EVALUATION:


Please rate the following qualities from 0 to 5, 
with 5 being the highest.


- Technical accuracy: 3


- Scientific quality/originality: 4


- Appropriateness for the conference:4 


- Quality of presentation: 2


- Overall evaluation: 3
  (0 = outside the scope of the workshop,
   1 = Very poor,
   2 = Poor,
   3 = Acceptable, 
   4 = Good,
   5 = Excellent )


- CONFIDENCE ON YOUR RATINGS (low, medium, high):high



4) JUSTIFICATION AND GENERAL COMMENTS:
  (A few lines are mandatory here to justify 
   the numerical evaluation. You may also include 
   general comments, relevant for both author(s) 
   and the Programme Committee.) 


- Summary and main contributions:
The paper proposes an approach for model integration at the metamodel level, 
through a set of defined operations denoted mega operations. Model integration 
constraints are defined along with these mega operations. 
The paper separates between tight integration (meta model weaving) and loose 
integration (meta model sewing). 
Loose integration is basically to specify relationships between the metamodels 
(synchronization relationships and dependency relationships), while tight 
integration (weaving) includes operations like override, inherit and prune.


   
- Weak points of the paper:
The abstract and the introduction section are not good. They should be 
shortened, be much more focused, the language should be improved and the text 
should be more precise. For instance the following sentence from the abstract: 
"Existing approaches, such as the forthcoming QVT standard, will provide a 
proper foundation for transforming models on a fine-grained level". First it 
exemplifies existing approaches with an approach that is yet to come (is not 
finalized). 
Second it claims that these existing approaches will provide a proper foundation 
for transforming models at a fine grained level, which in my opinion is highly 
questionable and is yet to be proven. 
Finally this sentence does not belong in an abstract in my opinion


The abstract and introduction suffer from such kind of sentences, furthermore 
the language is not good. Examples are the two next sentences of the abstract:
They, however, do not provide appropriate abstractions... 



I also miss some examples of QVT equivalents of the mega operations. The 
introduction and Section 2.3 states that weaving operations can be reduced to 
QVT specifications, but no examples are given.


- Strong points of the paper:


I found the content of the paper interesting. As the authors mention in their 
further work section, it needs more research to see the feasibility of the 
approach, but I believe it is an interesting contribution to the area. 
The related work section is good.


- Any suggestions for improvements: 


As indicated above the abstract and introduction should be rewritten and should 
be shorter. In addition I would like to see some mega operation equivalient QVT 
specifications (based on the current QVT submission). 
In general the language should be improved.



5) FURTHER COMMENTS FOR AUTHORS:



6) CONFIDENTIAL COMMENTS FOR PC:
   (not to be sent to authors)
This paper is on the edge between accept and reject. If the suggestions for 
improvements are accomplished, this paper is OK.
------------------


