*** MDWE 2005 REVIEW FORM

1) PAPER and REVIEW DETAILS

- PAPER No.: 14
- TITLE: Atomic Use case as a concept...
- AUTHORS: Nguyen and Dillon

2) EVALUATION:

Please rate the following qualities from 0 to 5, 
with 5 being the highest.

- Technical accuracy: 3

- Scientific quality/originality: 3

- Appropriateness for the conference: 4

- Quality of presentation: 3

- Overall evaluation: 3
  (0 = outside the scope of the workshop,
   1 = Very poor,
   2 = Poor,
   3 = Acceptable, 
   4 = Good,
   5 = Excellent )

- CONFIDENCE ON YOUR RATINGS (low, medium, high): medium


4) JUSTIFICATION AND GENERAL COMMENTS:
  (A few lines are mandatory here to justify 
   the numerical evaluation. You may also include 
   general comments, relevant for both author(s) 
   and the Programme Committee.) 

- Summary and main contributions:

This paper elaborates the Atomic Use Case idea (presented previously by
the authors)
to the field of Web Engineering particularly showing how to use it in the
context of UWE

- Weak points of the paper:

The specificity of Web applications is barely mentioned in the paper;
particularly the
explanation in pages 1 to 9, applies to any software application.
This aspect should be improved


- Strong points of the paper:

Solid idea, well explained, reasonable examples.

- Any suggestions for improvements: 

Please, improve the paper by trying to mention which aspects of the
approach fit well with
the Web Engineering domain. Perhaps devote more space to the UWE example
reducing the presentation of the basic approach

5) FURTHER COMMENTS FOR AUTHORS:

The paper is reasonable (please try to improve the size of the paper!!!)
though not completely focus to the workshop's intent; this cab be fixed
easily by improving it with some of the previous suggestions.
Particularly, I would like to read more on the specifities of the Web
Engineering domain and a bit less on the fundamental. Finally, can you
compare your work with other similar approaches to requirement
specification and their introduction in Web design methodologies?

