*** MDWE 2005 REVIEW FORM

1) PAPER and REVIEW DETAILS

- PAPER No.: 7
- TITLE: Incorporating Cooperative Portlets in Web Application Development
- AUTHORS: Nathalie Moreno, Raul Romero and Antonio Vallecillo

2) EVALUATION:

Please rate the following qualities from 0 to 5,
with 5 being the highest.

- Technical accuracy: 4

- Scientific quality/originality: 4

- Appropriateness for the conference: 5

- Quality of presentation: 4

- Overall evaluation: 4
  (0 = outside the scope of the workshop,
   1 = Very poor,
   2 = Poor,
   3 = Acceptable,
   4 = Good,
   5 = Excellent )

- CONFIDENCE ON YOUR RATINGS (low, medium, high): medium


4) JUSTIFICATION AND GENERAL COMMENTS:
  (A few lines are mandatory here to justify
   the numerical evaluation. You may also include
   general comments, relevant for both author(s)
   and the Programme Committee.)

- Summary and main contributions:

The authors propose an MDA approach to web application development based
on portlets, motivated by integration problems between portlets at the
business logic level.

- Weak points of the paper:

I could not quite figure out how the integration problems are solved in
the end. Is MDA the only answer? I would expect that a clear separation
of the notions of portlets (at the interface) and web services (for the
appication logic and data) could solve the integration problems,
effectively delegating them to the level of the underlying services.

- Strong points of the paper:

Good motivation and introduction to the problem. Well-defined
methodology and use of UML models. Generally well written and sound.


- Any suggestions for improvements:

The presentation of the reference model is rather generic. It could have
been profited from an example to illustrate the various points, or at
least from making reference to portlets from time to time. Not all views
occur in the example. Please document which and why.

5) FURTHER COMMENTS FOR AUTHORS:

page 1, 2nd column, line 3: ..., which act*s* as hub (remove s)
            line 4: service consumer -> service requestor
            line 18: ... integration *of* both ...

6) CONFIDENTIAL COMMENTS FOR PC:
   (not to be sent to authors)

none