
           Workshop on ODP for Enterprise Computing (WODPEC 2005)
                       In conjunction with EDOC 2005
                 Enschede, The Netherlands, September 19, 2005
                   (http://www.lcc.uma.es/~av/wodpec2005/)


                         ***  Call for Papers ***

ABOUT THE WORKSHOP


Six years after its final adoption as ITU-T Recommendation and ISO/IEC
International Standard, the Reference Model of Open Distributed
Processing (RM-ODP) is increasingly relevant, mainly because the size
and complexity of current IT systems is challenging most of the current
software engineering methods and tools. These methods and tools were not
conceived for use with large, open and distributed systems, which are
precisely the systems that the RM-ODP addresses. As a result, we are
now witnessing many major companies and organizations investigating
RM-ODP as a promising alternative for specifying their IT systems, and
for structuring their large-scale distributed software designs.


There are however some issues that may hamper the widespread adoption of
ODP by these companies. One of them is the fact that the Reference Model
does not prescribe any specific notation for representing its concepts
and viewpoint languages, which really hinders the development of
commercial tools for writing and analysing ODP system specifications.


The wide adoption of UML by industry, the number of available UML tools,
and the increasing interest for model-driven development and the MDA
initiative, motivated ISO/IEC and ITU-T to launch a joint project in
2004, which aims to define the use of UML for ODP system specifications
(ITU-T Rec. X.906 | ISO/IEC 19793). Thus, ODP modellers could use the
UML notation for expressing their ODP specifications in a standard
graphical way, and UML modellers could use the RM-ODP concepts and
mechanisms to structure their UML system specifications. In addition,
modelling tool suppliers will be able to develop UML-based tools capable
of expressing RM-ODP viewpoint specifications.


However, the use of UML as the language and notation of choice for ODP
system modelling is not straightforward. For instance, the object models
followed by UML and ODP do not match completely (e.g., UML is
class-based, whilst ODP is object-based; their behavioural models are
different; etc.). In addition, the loose semantics of UML may represent
an impediment to achieving the precise specification and analysis of ODP
systems and the development of tools, and some ODP concepts are
difficult to map into UML (e.g., policy and accountability concepts). On
the contrary, the simplicity and elegance of RM-ODP contrasts with the
complexity and semantic vagueness of UML. Thus, clarification and
simplification of UML semantics may be based on the RM-ODP in this
context. Furthermore, using ODP for business modelling may provide an
excellent basis for establishing technology- and tool-independent
communication mechanisms between business and IT stakeholders.


A second issue is the fact that some UML modellers are used to other
design methodologies and architectural practices (e.g., RUP, IEEE Std.
1471, the “4+1” views model, the Zachman’s framework, etc.) that define
different sets of viewpoints on a system. The continuing relevance of
RM-ODP in the context of these software architectural practices, and
their relationship to RM-ODP needs to be determined in order to
accomplish the degree of interoperability required.

Finally, the precise role played in this picture by model driven 
architectures (MDA), service oriented architectures (SOA), component-based 
architectures (CBA), event driven architectures (EDA) and other architectural 
approaches is still unclear--although the RM-ODP might well serve as a 
coordinating framework for them all.


SCOPE


This Workshop will provide a discussion forum where researchers,
practitioners, system modelers, tool developers and representatives of
standardization bodies can meet and exchange experiences, problems and
ideas related to the use of UML for ODP system specifications, and its
relationship with other architectural practices and approaches (e.g.,
MDA, SOA, CBA, EDA) in the realm of Enterprise Distributed Computing.


The duration of the workshop is one day and this workshop will be held on
September 19, 2005.


TOPICS


Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:


* UML and RM-ODP
  > specification of systems using approaches
    based on UML and the RM-ODP;
  > current issues, limitations and problems of using UML
    to represent ODP concepts;
  > Representation of specific concepts of ODP viewpoint
    languages in UML, for example:
    - policy concepts (obligations, permissions,
        authorizations, prohibitions);
    - accountability concepts (commitments, prescriptions,
        evaluations, declarations and delegations);
    - multiparty synchronous interactions.
  > impact of UML 2.0 on the specification of RM-ODP concepts;
  > use of UML and ODP for specific application domains
    (finance, telecomms, health care, aerospace, etc.).
* UML Profiles for RM-ODP
  > formal semantics for subsets of UML or UML Profiles
    to support the specification of RM-ODP concepts;
  > foundations of RM-ODP based on exact philosophy of science
    (such as that discussed by Bunge, Hayek and others);
  > definition of UML Profiles for ODP viewpoints and for
    extensions and refinements of the RM-ODP for particular
    application domains.
* Architectural practices/approaches and RM-ODP
  > use of MDA concepts and mechanisms for ODP system
    specifications;
  > use of other modelling languages for ODP system
    specification and implementation;
  > relationship and integration of RM-ODP with other
    architectural practices (e.g., IEEE Std. 1471, RUP)
    and architectural approaches (e.g., SOA, CBA, or EDA).
* Tooling
  > requirements for supporting tools or tool chains
    (currently in use or under development);
  > use of existing tools for ODP system specifications.
* Case studies and experiences
  > knowledge gained from experiences with graphical
    notations for large distributed system specifications;
  > application of the RM-ODP for large-scale software projects;
  > identification of potential problems for, and benefits from,
    the industrial adoption of the UML for ODP system
    specification.



SUBMISSION GUIDELINES


To enable lively and productive discussions, attendance will be limited
to 25 participants and submission of a paper or a position statement is
required. All submissions will be formally peer reviewed.


Submissions should be 4 to 8 pages long in IEEE Computer Society format
and include the author's name, affiliation and contact details. They
should be submitted by e-mail as postscript or PDF files before June 13,
2005, to the Workshop Chairs (wodpec2005@lcc.uma.es).


Authors will be notified of acceptance by July 11, 2005. At least one
author of accepted papers should participate in the Workshop. Workshop
proceedings will be published on the conference CD-ROM, and all accepted
papers will appear in the IEEE Digital Library.



WORKSHOP CHAIRS


Peter F. Linington      University of Kent (UK)
Akira Tanaka            Hitachi (Japan)
Sandy Tyndale-Biscoe    Open-IT (UK)
Antonio Vallecillo      University of Málaga (Spain)



WORKSHOP PROGRAM COMMITTEE


Dave Akehurst           University of Kent (UK)
Joao P. Almeida         University of Twente (The Netherlands)
Jean Bérubé             Idigenic (Canada)
Jonathan Billington     University of South Wales (Australia)
Celso González          IBM (Canada)
Haim Kilov              Stevens Institute of Technology (US)
Lea Kutvonen            University of Helsinki (Finland)
Peter F. Linington      University of Kent (UK)
Arve Meisingset         Telenor (Norway)
Joaquin Miller          X-Change Technologies (US)
Tom Rutt                Coast Enterprises, INCITS T3 IR (US)
Akira Tanaka            Hitachi (Japan)
Sandy Tyndale-Biscoe    Open-IT (UK)
Antonio Vallecillo      University of Málaga (Spain)
Bryan Wood              Open-IT (UK)



IMPORTANT DATES


Workshop papers due:    13 June 2005
Author notification:    11 July 2005
Final papers due:       15 August 2005
Workshop date:          19 September 2005


