1) PAPER and REVIEW DETAILS 

- PAPER No.: 1 
- TITLE: Applying Model-Driven Development to Business Systems 
- AUTHORS: Yoshihide Nagase, Daisuke Hashimoto, Miwa Sato 

2) EVALUATION: 

Please rate the following qualities from 0 to 5, 
with 5 being the highest. 

- Technical accuracy: 4 
- Scientific quality/originality: 3 
- Appropriateness for the conference: 4 
- Quality of presentation: 4 
- Overall evaluation: 4
 
(0 = outside the scope of WODPEC, 
1 = Very poor, 
2 = Poor, 
3 = Acceptable, 
4 = Good, 
5 = Excellent ) 

3) CONFIDENCE LEVEL (low, medium, high): High 

4) JUSTIFICATION AND GENERAL COMMENTS: 
(A few lines are mandatory here to justify the numerical evaluation. 
You may also include general comments, relevant for both author(s) 
and the Programme Committee. 

The paper presents a Model-Driven development process referencing 
MDA and based on RM-ODP, EDOC and CCA. The use of these 3 standards 
for each ODP Viewpoint is presented and limitations of ODP underlined. 
Revisions to the standard are suggested. 


- Weak points of the 

* Clarification needed on use of RM-ODP, EDOC and CCA concepts and on 
relationship between concepts of each standard, even if 7.1 gives a few hints. 
For example, is Actor an Enterprise Viewpoint concept selected ? 
The text does not say so but figure 2 introduces this concept. 
How are identified entity components ? How are they used in the Computational Viewpoint ? 

* Examples given in the figures do not show transformation nor 
"traceability"/"seamless development" as said in Introduction. 
Only Business and Information Models seem to be taken from the case study, 
other figures are general examples, so the link between the examples is not obvious. 

* References to be completed. 

- Strong points of the paper: 

* A very interesting application of standards to a domain case study 
showing how you get the best of standards if you adapt them to your 
development process. 

* 7.1 gives hints for adding concepts to RM-ODP. 

* The paper should open to good discussion on the use of standards 
and in particular the use of RM-ODP in development process. 

- Any suggestions for improvements: 

As it is the paper can lead to good discussions, hoping to get more feedback 
on the pilot project. 

It could be improved by a short introduction of the different standards 
and their main concepts. 

5) FURTHER COMMENTS FOR AUTHORS: 

Applying different standards to a domain case study should deliver good 
guidance to users of these standards. 

Defining for each standard the precise set of concepts selected by the 
project, and moreover the set of concepts selected by the project in each 
RM-ODP Viewpoint, could be good help for other projects, even those 
dealing with other domains. Making explicit, i.e. in a table, the mapping 
between concepts is also an important point. 

6) CONFIDENTIAL COMMENTS FOR PC: 
(not to be sent to authors) 

The paper is appropriate for discussions at the Workshop. The use of 
the 3 standards concepts does not seem very mature and MDA 
is only a reference. Model transformation is purely a mapping in the 
Technology viewpoint. 

A question is: why not use UML at all and benefit from UML tools ? 

But even if there is still work to be done this seems a good start 
and can help to progress in the standard. 