2) EVALUATION 

Please rate the following qualities from 0 to 5, 
with 5 being the highest.

- Technical accuracy: 4

- Scientific quality/originality: 4

- Appropriateness for the conference: 5

- Quality of presentation: 3

- Overall evaluation: 4
  (0 = outside the scope of WODPEC,
   1 = Very poor,
   2 = Poor,
   3 = Acceptable, 
   4 = Good,
   5 = Excellent )

- CONFIDENCE LEVEL (low, medium, high): High

4) JUSTIFICATION AND GENERAL COMMENTS:
  (A few lines are mandatory here to justify 
   the numerical evaluation. You may also include 
   general comments, relevant for both author(s) 
   and the Programme Committee. 

The Paper provides a case study of using OMG EDOC for ODP Enterprise
Language models.  

The models shown are sketchy, but serve to roughly illustrate the 
points being raised.

It does not provide much detail on the actual modeling approach used, 
but for an overview intended to raise discussion points it seems adequate.

The mapping of ODP viewpoints to MDA concepts (i.e, CIM, PIM and PSM) 
provides an interesting starting point for discussion at the workshop.

The points where RM-ODP could be enhanced in this area are worthy of 
discussion at the workshop.

There are several grammar errors (mostly involving the use of “the” “a” 
and plurality) which I found, and have attached proposed corrections for.

5) FURTHER COMMENTS FOR AUTHORS:

Page: 1

Sequence number: 1

Abstract: Grammar error: change to either "a seamless development process" 
or "seamless development processes"

Sequence number: 2

1. Introduction: grammar: change to " Moreover, certain mechanisms" or 
"Moreover, a certain mechanism"

 
Sequence number: 3

2. Grammar: 2nd para "This paper shows an overview"

Page: 2

Sequence number: 1

3. grammar: should be "In the Enterprise Viewpont" in first sentence also: 
"for a unit called Community" in fourth sentence.

Sequence number: 2

4: grammar: should be "In the Information Viewpoing"

Sequence number: 3

Top Right Page 2: Grammar should be "enablses description of primary key ..." 
and should be "number of remote accesses"

Sequence number: 4

5. Grammar: should be "In the Computational Viewpoint"

Page: 3

Sequence number: 1

6. Grammar: should be "In the Engineering Viewpoing" and in second para 
should be "mapping a Component Model onto platforms"

Sequence number: 2

Under Fig 5: grammar: should be "In the Technology Viewpint, a PIM .... 
to derive a PSM from it."

Sequence number: 3

Table 1: the mapping in the table of Flow Port to operation port 
should be explained, or deleted as an unnecessary detail for the
scope of this overview paper.

Page: 4

Sequence number: 1

7. Grammar : should be "Based on the experience of the project explained 
above," and change "following isues are to be considered" to "following 
issues should be considered"

 
Sequence number: 2

7.1 para 1: should be "the resulting model should be considered as a 
Computational Viewpoint Model."

Sequence number: 3

7.2 last sentence :grammar: should be "designing a new system model to include"

 
Sequence number: 4

7.3 last line : grammar: should be "binding to CCA components representing 
user interfaces."

Sequence number: 5

8.1 grammar: should be "our process to an Electronic Health Record system." 
and in last sentence should be "to implement an Electronic Health Record system"

6) CONFIDENTIAL COMMENTS FOR PC:
   (not to be sent to authors) 

With the Grammar fixes I believe this paper provides important points 
for discussion at the workshop.
 
