2) EVALUATION:

Please rate the following qualities from 0 to 5, 
with 5 being the highest.

- Technical accuracy:  3

- Scientific quality/originality:  3

- Appropriateness for the conference:  4

- Quality of presentation:  3

- Overall evaluation:  2.5
  (0 = outside the scope of WODPEC,
   1 = Very poor,
   2 = Poor,
   3 = Acceptable, 
   4 = Good,
   5 = Excellent )

- CONFIDENCE LEVEL (low, medium, high):  high


4) JUSTIFICATION AND GENERAL COMMENTS:
  (A few lines are mandatory here to justify 
   the numerical evaluation. You may also include 
   general comments, relevant for both author(s) 
   and the Programme Committee. 
   
- Weak points of the paper:

This statement is neither explained nor justified: 
"for some of the consistency relationships it is not possible 
to define them at the meta-level."  The author goes on to write 
"is not feasible to define a matching condition for these 
relations (i.e. an expression that would define which objects 
from domain and range are mapped to each other) because there 
is no way at the meta-level to determine which objects should 
be related."  This may what the author had in mind by the 
first statement; if so, the paper is not clear on the subject.  
It may be that the author does not clearly distinguish between 
a relationship and a type of relationship.  If 'relationship' 
in the first statement is intended to mean individual 
relationships, rather than types of relationships, then the 
statement is wrong, since no (not some) individual relationship 
can be defined at what is here called "the meta level."  

Either the author is using 'relationship' and 'relation' 
interchangeably, or i a missing the intended distinction.  
If no distinction is being made, the author should pick one 
term and stick to it.

I can't understand this:  "The correspondences must be set up 
by the designer on a per design basis; however, the specification 
of these relations will enable a generated tool to indicate whether 
on not the correspondences have been set up."  

Does the author have a clear plan for the usage of 'correspondence,' 
'relation,' and 'relationship'?  

The author is enamored with the word 'precise.'

It is not possible to define language concepts using a metamodel.  
Only syntax rules can be expressed.

The idea of a viewpoint correspondence viewpoint appears more 
like something being tossed in, rather than something thought 
through.  It can be removed without harming the paper.

The appendix disappoints.  It would be more interesting to tackle 
the problem of providing an example of a matching algorithm for a 
correspondence rule.


- Strong points of the paper:

- Any suggestions for improvements: 

A couple of suggestions are imbedded in the comments above.

     


5) FURTHER COMMENTS FOR AUTHORS:


6) CONFIDENTIAL COMMENTS FOR PC:
   (not to be sent to authors)
