2) EVALUATION:


Please rate the following qualities from 0 to 5, 
with 5 being the highest.


- Technical accuracy: 3


- Scientific quality/originality: 1


- Appropriateness for the conference: 5


- Quality of presentation: 4


- Overall evaluation: 2
  (0 = outside the scope of WODPEC,
   1 = Very poor,
   2 = Poor,
   3 = Acceptable, 
   4 = Good,
   5 = Excellent )


- CONFIDENCE LEVEL (low, medium, high): high



4) JUSTIFICATION AND GENERAL COMMENTS:
  (A few lines are mandatory here to justify 
   the numerical evaluation. You may also include 
   general comments, relevant for both author(s) 
   and the Programme Committee. 
   
Summary:


The paper presents 3 case studies of attempting to use RM-ODP for architectural
descriptions. The 3 case studies are 
1. A multimedia application for converging the Internet with Moble Telephony
and Digital TV.
2. A Customer Relationship Management System
3. Integration of enterprise applications using Middleware


- Weak points of the paper: 
The paper lacks originality and stays at a superficial level. There is little
detail presented of the 3 applications and no critical analysis of the
approach. Thus there is little (if anything) here that can be used to progress
the state of the art of ODP.


- Strong points of the paper:


- Any suggestions for improvements: 


Suggest just take one application and give more details and describe the
problems and limitations of the approach once implementations have been
developed.


5) FURTHER COMMENTS FOR AUTHORS:


1. Define acronyms the first time they are introduced (eg CRM)
2. Avoid long sentences (eg Sect. 2 Para 2, 2nd sentence)
3. Explain why Fig 2 represents the computational view point. It just appears
to be a high-level architectural view - there needs to be a computational model
- not just a static architectural model.
4. Similar comment for Fig 3.
5. Top of page 2, Col. 2. Why do you consider PDAs, mobile phones and digital
TV as "communication channels"? These are terminals and quite different in
nature from the Internet which is given as part of the same set of examples. 
6. Provide a more detailed explanation of what is going on in Fig 2, especially
for Convergent service classes, and then refine to a computational model.
7. Similar xcomments can be made for the other two case studies.
