2) EVALUATION:

Please rate the following qualities from 0 to 5, 
with 5 being the highest.

- Technical accuracy:   2

- Scientific quality/originality:   2

- Appropriateness for the conference:  3

- Quality of presentation: 2

- Overall evaluation:   2
  (0 = outside the scope of WODPEC,
   1 = Very poor,
   2 = Poor,
   3 = Acceptable, 
   4 = Good,
   5 = Excellent )

- CONFIDENCE LEVEL (low, medium, high): high


4) JUSTIFICATION AND GENERAL COMMENTS:
  (A few lines are mandatory here to justify 
   the numerical evaluation. You may also include 
   general comments, relevant for both author(s) 
   and the Programme Committee. 
   
- Weak points of the paper:

It's not clear what 'semantics' means in "semantics of 
processing aspects."  The term 'semantics' is used in several 
ways in the literature.  Sometime it is simply a fancy synonym 
for meaning, sometimes it refers to a formal semantics, and 
sometimes it is used with a specialist meaning having to do 
with the behavior of programs.  It's not clear which, if any, 
of these is intended in this case.

"The computational viewpoint is responsible for the functional 
decomposition in terms of object classes and their computational 
interfaces, ..."  Actually, the computational viewpoint language 
expresses specifications in terms of objects, not classes.  When 
a computational specification includes several object of the same 
class, of course the specification can be in terms of classes.  
And classes do not have interfaces: objects do.  Of course, every 
object of a given class may have an interface of the same interface 
type.  But it is not possible to specify a system without specifying 
some individual objects and interfaces.  There will be no harm to 
their paper if the authors write:  "The computational viewpoint is 
responsible for the functional decomposition in terms of objects 
and their computational interfaces, ..."  

In fact, this change will enable cleaning up the sequel.  
For example:  "When a user class instance requires a service or 
information, a stub object will provide functions to support 
transparency in the request of a service and its response." will 
become "When a user object requires a service or information, a 
stub object will provide functions to support transparency in the 
request of a service and its response."  And the mixed diagram, 
instead of showing a class (UserClass) bound to an object (Stub), 
will show one object (user) bound to another (stub). 

I don't get "For example, in figure 3, P1, P2 and P3, transparently 
obtain the information or service from the binder and stub objects 
of the instances of the convergent services classes."  We are not 
told what the Ps are, and what they are doing bound to protocol objects.

I'm puzzled by "An example for the use of this architecture would be 
a request of a service from a digital TV device that would enable a 
search in a database server using the Internet, whose answer would 
be delivered to the user’s mobile phone."  Does this mean someone 
would make a request information through their television sent, and 
get the information on their cell phone.  Could be, but a concrete 
example would help.

Regarding Figure 4: where's the meat?

"the very company’s real state" does not mean anything to me; this 
needs to be rewritten.

I feel let down by section 4.  The earlier sections of the paper are 
fairly high level, but somewhat concrete.  Section 4 does not show me 
anything specific or useful.

I would have rated the paper higher, except for section 4.



- Strong points of the paper:

- Any suggestions for improvements: 


5) FURTHER COMMENTS FOR AUTHORS:


6) CONFIDENTIAL COMMENTS FOR PC:
   (not to be sent to authors)

As a courtesy to the authors, a native speaker or other person fluent 
in English should edit the paper before publication to repair the 
grammatical and usage errors and awkwardisms.


