1) PAPER and REVIEW DETAILS


- PAPER No.: 3
- TITLE: Architecting frameworks for specific applications with RM-ODP
- AUTHORS: A.P. Goncalves Serra, S.A. Vicente, D. Karam Jr and M. Martucci


2) EVALUATION:


Please rate the following qualities from 0 to 5,
with 5 being the highest.


- Technical accuracy: 2


- Scientific quality/originality: 3


- Appropriateness for the conference: 2


- Quality of presentation: 2


- Overall evaluation: 2
   (0 =3D outside the scope of WODPEC,
    1 =3D Very poor,
    2 =3D Poor,
    3 =3D Acceptable,
    4 =3D Good,
    5 =3D Excellent )


- CONFIDENCE LEVEL (low, medium, high): high



4) JUSTIFICATION AND GENERAL COMMENTS:
   (A few lines are mandatory here to justify
    the numerical evaluation. You may also include
    general comments, relevant for both author(s)
    and the Programme Committee.


This paper discusses three application areas for a reference model.
It looks at what the framework is required to do and, specifically,
how well the RM-ODP satisfies the requirements. Unfortunately, the
interpretatios taken are not those generally accepted for RM-ODP, and
the level of detail is rather limited, so the paper does not show 
much aboout the strengths or weaknesses of this approach.


- Weak points of the paper:


The analysisof the RM-ODP as a convergence architecture has the most
detail but is flawed because it places considerable engineering detail of
the different channel types in the computational model. It would be
interesting to do this analysis with a comparison of computational dialogue
styles, looking at the abstract interaction patterns from the elements
being converged, but the paper fails to do this. In the engineering
description, it also integrates conversion functions into the functional
stacks supporting; one would expect to see at least discussion of
interceptor-based solutions here.


The discussion of CRM systems focuses on the creation of an enterprise
model; this is the most relevant part of the paper, and would be
interesting to discuss in more detail However, it concentrates on role
identification, and could say more about the behaviour associated with
the CRM communities.


The final area discussed is an integration middleware, but here
again the use of viewpoints is surprising. The architecture proposed
talks about information object adapters as providing conversion and
dialogue management, describing functions that would be more naturally
seen as computational or even engineering support. However, there is
little detail and so it is hard to judge what is intended.



- Strong points of the paper:
It is always good to see a reference framework applied in a range
of situations, and so the comparative aspets are welcome.


- Any suggestions for improvements:
See further comments.



5) FURTHER COMMENTS FOR AUTHORS:


It would have been better to go into more depth on a smaller number
of points. It is good to see the different styles of application, but
you could have concentrated more on direct feature comparisons
between them.


Some typos:


figure 3 blinder -> binder
3.1 line5 knowing -> knowledge
section 4 para 3 last full line whish -> wish
section 5 para 2 line 1 de ->the
      rest of this sentence needs rewording around "such deed".



6) CONFIDENTIAL COMMENTS FOR PC:
    (not to be sent to authors)


This is really rather borderline stuff. It would be good to encourage
the authors by having them particpate, but I'm not really happy with
it as it is; let's see what the other reviews are like!