1) PAPER and REVIEW DETAILS

PAPER No.:	4
TITLE:	A Model-Driven Approach for Information System Migration
AUTHORS:	R. Le Delliou, N. Ploquin, M. Belaunde, R. Bendraou and L. Fķraud.

2) EVALUATION:

This evaluation is based on the assumption that the paper intended to 
cover the following workshop topics:

- experience of implementations of systems using approaches based on the RM-ODP;
- experiences in the use of approaches based on RM-ODP for specific application domains

Please rate the following qualities from 0 to 5, with 5 being the highest.

Technical accuracy: 			4
Scientific quality/originality: 		3
Appropriateness for the conference: 	4
Quality of presentation: 			3
Overall evaluation:  4 = Good,
CONFIDENCE LEVEL Medium

4) JUSTIFICATION AND GENERAL COMMENTS:

- Weak points of the paper:

The descriptive and historical part tend to dilute the core messages 
of the paper, specially in relationship with the objectives of the workshop.

- Strong points of the paper:

The messages expressed or implied in the paper (this is what I understood):
* Transforming systems requires transforming models of the system;
* Transforming systems require preparation;
* Altough going from source model to target model is possible, an 
  enterprise may want to establish a common intermediate model for 
  knowledge preservation;
* Preferably that model should be based on standard;
* The RM-ODP is not detailed enough to provide help in the specification 
  of those models. Something else (action semantics) is needed;
* The RM-ODP provides an architecture for those models (structuring concepts)

- Any suggestions for improvements:

1. Introduction (or maybe abstract): Before going into the objectives 
of the described experience, additional text is required to establish 
the objective of this paper. Even if the paper is mostly descriptive, 
it has a message it wants to propose.

2. III- Common: The conclusions (for the purpose of this workshop) are 
actually in this section. The conclusion section should also summarize 
(and maybe emphasize) them after having summarized the conclusions of 
the experience.

3. Introduction par 3: The term model is introduced at the end of the 
paragraph. It would be prudent to establish here a conventional definition 
(since this is an overloaded word) and position this definition with 
respect to similar terms (Architecture, Representation, Specification, ģ) 
used in the paper.

4. III-Common first two paragraphs: Same comment as above. The paper is 
about models, but the RM-ODP is introduced as useful for specifications. 
The two terms need to have been related.

5) FURTHER COMMENTS FOR AUTHORS:

Editorials:

5. In Abstract:	leaded = led
6. In Introduction par 3: In maintenance = Is maintenance
7. In Methodology par 1: have have = have
8. In Methodology par 3: instrumentation model is introduced, 
then becomes implementation model. Is that a typo.
9. In Methodology par 4: legacy data ? Is the intent of the first paragraph 
to discuss re-engineering of databases (parsing data definitions), or 
analyzing program code (in such case what is meant is legacy system.
10. In II Modeling par 2: BMS is introduced, but the acronym is not defined. 
(The only BMS I remember is Basic Mapping Support used with 3270s. It maybe it)
11. In II Modeling par 3: e = we
12. In V Conclusion: demonstratrated = demonstrated

6) CONFIDENTIAL COMMENTS FOR PC:

(not very confidential) Supplying line numbered copies would facilitate detailed comments, but I suppose format of papers are standardized.

