1) PAPER and REVIEW DETAILS

- PAPER No.: 6
- TITLE: What Foundations does the RM-ODP Need?
- AUTHORS: Peter F. Linington.

2) EVALUATION:

Please rate the following qualities from 0 to 5,
with 5 being the highest.

- Technical accuracy: 5

- Scientific quality/originality: 5

- Appropriateness for the conference: 5

- Quality of presentation: 4

- Overall evaluation: 5
   (0 = outside the scope of WODPEC,
    1 = Very poor,
    2 = Poor,
    3 = Acceptable,
    4 = Good,
    5 = Excellent )

- CONFIDENCE LEVEL (low, medium, high): high


4) JUSTIFICATION AND GENERAL COMMENTS:
   (A few lines are mandatory here to justify
    the numerical evaluation. You may also include
    general comments, relevant for both author(s)
    and the Programme Committee.

- Weak points of the paper:

- Strong points of the paper:

- Any suggestions for improvements:

This is a very well-written paper clearly presenting some areas of possible 
improvement in Part 2 of RM-ODP. It clearly demonstrates that the Foundations 
can be successfully used to model not only "old" concepts and constructs but 
also such "new" ones as those used in component-oriented architectures.


With respect to various derived definitions, it might be of interest and use 
to consider Part 1 which, in the opinion of this reviewer, needs revision so 
as to correspond to the letter and spirit of the Foundations. Increasing the 
size of Part 2 in a substantial manner would probably be counterproductive. To a 
certain extent, these considerations may apply to the very interesting 
proposals in section 8.


Some sections of the paper overemphasize the computational viewpoint 
approach. At the same time, such proposals as providing definitions for some 
interesting subtypes of interactions (section 2) ought to take into account the 
generality of the concept, including its usage in business modelling.


One can only agree with the proposals in section 9. While defining 
relationships based on a (generalized) GRM approach is certainly very helpful, it may be 
noted that some relationship definitions (such as those of subtyping and 
composition) were already included in Part 2. This may need to be stated 
explicitly, especially emphasizing the property determination aspect. Furthermore, 
composition (unlike subtyping) is currently defined in Part 2 only for objects and 
actions while it is clear that composition ought to be defined in a more 
general way (for <X>s).


Finally, the idea that "[i]t would also be possible to improve Part 4 by 
interpreting some of the concepts directly in terms of the semantic domain for the 
formal description techniques rather than writing them in the techniques 
directly" is certainly more than welcome. Some work in this area has been 
accomplished, for example, in "An Approach to an RMODP Toolkit in Z" by D.Randolh 
Johnson and H.Kilov published in "Computer standards and interfaces". Note also 
that more explicit treatment of some RM-ODP concepts becomes essential as soon 
as the concepts described semi-formally are to be formalized. This is a very 
important - and relatively well-known - advantage of formalisms.


Typos: "invokes" => "invoke" (page 2, right column, line 5 from top); "it's" 
=> "its" (page 2, right column, line 7 from top); "changed" => "changes" (page 
3, left column, line 6 from bottom) 


5) FURTHER COMMENTS FOR AUTHORS:

