1) PAPER and REVIEW DETAILS
PAPER No.:	7
TITLE:	Challenges for ODP-based infrastructure for managing dynamic B2B networks
AUTHORS:	Lea Kutvonen

2) EVALUATION:

This evaluation is based on the assumption that the paper 
intended to cover the following workshop topics:

- experiences in the use of approaches based on RM-ODP for specific application domains;
- Web Services.

Please rate the following qualities from 0 to 5, with 5 being the highest.

Technical accuracy: 			3
Scientific quality/originality: 		4
Appropriateness for the conference: 	4
Quality of presentation: 			3
Overall evaluation:  4 = Good,

CONFIDENCE LEVEL Medium

4) JUSTIFICATION AND GENERAL COMMENTS:

- Weak points of the paper:

1. The paper covers multiple topics, and their relationship with ODP 
is not clearly stated, and is difficult to infer from the text itself.
The title and one third of the abstract talks about ODP-based infrastructures, 
but that topic is not covered in detail in the paper;
The abstract introduces extensions to the RM-ODP for management and 
communication facilities. This is covered to a certain extent;
The paper discusses collaboration middleware based on ODP related 
standards (Trader, type Repository, etc.)
Finally the main topic is formalization of business interactions 
using another ODP-related standard, the enterprise language.

- Strong points of the paper:

2. The topic of formalization of business interactions as a 
prerequisite to offering, or using services in open environments 
is well covered.

- Any suggestions for improvements: 

3. The title of the paper is "Challenges". One could expect a more 
structured flow of logic between some statement of basic facts, 
statements of other facts that make it a challenge, is the RM-ODP 
usefull in tackling that challenge, has it been tackled in the 
experiment or is it further work to do.

For instance shared concepts are mentioned in the abstract, 
shared ontologies are mentioned in 2.1, and then the conclusion 
states that ontologies need to be defined. What the challenge was, 
however, has not been established.

4. Web Services architectures and implementation are currently using 
either the eBXML set of standards, or the WS ones, one of which (eBXML) 
is richer at the meta and business level. The paper mentions WS in a 
cursory fashion. One would have expected more on these architectures, 
and their relationship (or absence thereof) with ODP, if the intent 
of the paper was either to discuss middleware and architecture for 
collaboration, and/or formalization of business collaboration as a 
pre-requisite to the use of these middleware.

5. The paper would gain in clarity if the perspective with regards 
to business collaboration was stated when required. The perspective 
of the service provider is quite different than the perspective of 
the service user, and thus the relationship with the RM-ODP. 

6. The abstract introduces the notion of "open collaboration". 
I understand this as total decoupling of the process of offering 
a service to the process of using a service, the offered service 
being documented to the point the potential service user can make 
a decision on the integration of that service to its own business 
processes. However as the paper progresses, one gets the feeling 
that openness is abandoned to the profit of more rigourously defined 
choreography between collaborating partners in one business process.

5) FURTHER COMMENTS FOR AUTHORS:

7. A little more detail on the web-Pilarcos project would be helpful 
(timelines, deliverables, scope, etc.)

6) CONFIDENTIAL COMMENTS FOR PC:

