2) EVALUATION:

Please rate the following qualities from 0 to 5, 
with 5 being the highest.

- Technical accuracy: 3

- Scientific quality/originality: 4

- Appropriateness for the conference: 3

- Quality of presentation: 3

- Overall evaluation: 3
  (0 = outside the scope of WODPEC,
   1 = Very poor,
   2 = Poor,
   3 = Acceptable, 
   4 = Good,
   5 = Excellent )

- CONFIDENCE LEVEL (low, medium, high): Medium

4) JUSTIFICATION AND GENERAL COMMENTS:
  (A few lines are mandatory here to justify 
   the numerical evaluation. You may also include 
   general comments, relevant for both author(s) 
   and the Programme Committee. 

The paper is not specific on ODP, but is on IT architecture 
in general. This is a weak point, as it does not focus on the 
purpose of the Workshop. However, this is also a strong point, 
as it puts ODP discussions into a larger context.

ODP may be considered to be a framework, by which you can 
specify systems, including their architecture. The paper 
could have made a clearer distinction between frameworks 
and architecture, where frameworks provide an architecture for 
development, ie. a meta architecture, but is not an architecture 
for the target systems. 
  
- Weak points of the paper: 

Motivation for the use and appropriateness of the 
categories macro-, mid- and micro is missing. 

- Strong points of the paper: 

Provides a good context for discussions on IT architecture.

- Any suggestions for improvements: 

The reference to Hoare’s challenge should be spelled out. 
Some misspellings should be corrected. 


5) FURTHER COMMENTS FOR AUTHORS: 

Some improvement of language is needed.
An evaluation of RM-ODP would be appreciated, eg. should the 
architecture part of specifications of the target systems using 
RM-ODP be better identified and separated by the framework? 
Are the architecture aspects of the target systems appropriately covered.
Is RM-ODP a good meta architecture? Eg. should the distinction 
between external designs (HCIs) be better separated from internal 
designs (of processes, databases, interoperations etc?)

6) CONFIDENTIAL COMMENTS FOR PC: 
   (not to be sent to authors) 

This paper provides important high level issues for discussion of 
IT architecture, and could be valuable as an introduction to a set 
of more specific papers on ODP architecture.

